---
id: essential
title: Essential information
sidebar_label: Essential information

---
Before you explore the platform in detail, you need the following essential information. You will see the folders, files and tools that we introduce here throughout the document. Reading this section first will enable you to put these into context more quickly.

## Skills and experience

The Genesis LCNC Platform provides a set of tools that enable you to develop applications for the financial sector (and beyond) at speed. To develop an application, you need to have a working knowledge of Linux, Java and IDE. At key stages, clear visual tools help you select and configure key parts of an application, but for sophistication, your developer skills are invaluable

## File structure

The platform and your application are stored in the **\~/run** directory. This has the following folders:

**genesis**

This is the Genesis framework, containing all the libraries and config files. These are essential system files that you cannot configure or change.

**generated**

This contains all the installation-generated files (for example, cfg) following the most recent installation, upgrade or remap.

**auth**

This is the module that you can configure to control access to the application and the permission to access for specific information or functions within the application.

**_application_**

This is the folder for the application (project) that you have created. Its name matches the project name.

**runtime**

**site-specific**

In this folder, you can add items that override the standard definitions found elsewhere in the application. You supply the standard definition name and your own definition. Your application will then only use your definition.

This is useful where you have used non-configurable genesis modules (which you cannot change). Any files or definitions that are listed in this folder automatically replace the definitions in the modules themselves (across the whole application). In the example below, our site-specific area has specific auth definitions including auth-dataserver.xml and 

auth-tables-dictionary.kts.

Within the run directory, you can find the key Genesis modules, each of which delivers important functions. Note two modules in particular:

AUTH is responsible for permissions – it contains access control lists that determine what information and functions each user has access to. In Genesis, Auth is used to control every single event. Therefore, it has been designed for high performance.

GCOM contains all your libraries, scripts and the common data model (with standard definitions of fields and tables).

You can, of course, create and add your own modules.

The modules generated by the build all have a similar folder structure. The main items are:

* scripts. Utility scripts.
* config. Configuration files.
* bin. Contains the built .jar files (binary objects) for this module’s codebase.
* lib. Dependencies (libraries) for this module.

site-specific

runtime

runtime is used to store run-time information that is generated by the system. System logs and cache files are kept here.

For developers, it is good practice to create a folder within runtime when you need to pull or produce files that were generated from an external service..

Recommended Genesis practice is to have dated run directories for each deployment. For any upgrade, you can then just symlink the \~/run directory to the latest dated run directory. 

symlinks

Symlinks are short cuts to other directories, similar to the short cuts you find on a Windows desktop. 

These links maks it easy to roll back if things go wrong, simply by repointing to the old directory.

For example, the symlink below points run to a directory for an application called foxtrot, dated 18th May, 2021.

    run-> data/foxtrot/20210518/run