---
title: 'Version 2022.1'
sidebar_label: 'Version 2022.1'
sidebar_position: 0
id: version-2022-1
---

This is version v2022.1 of the documentation for the Genesis low-code platform.

It is based on:
- server version v2022.1
- web version v1.0.0

# Release notes

## New Web UI components

### New packages

- foundation-store: a predictable application-level state-management solution built from the ground with best practices and performance at its core.

- foundation-events: Strongly typed event emitter and component mixin, which provides event and payload type checking during development.

### Seeds

#### New seeds

- foundation-store-app-seed - an example of using foundation-store to manage the web application state, along with foundation-events. Both packages and approach will likely form the backbone of all future apps.

- hello-world-app-seed - a bare-bones seed project.

#### Improved seeds

- positions-app-seed - additional functionality added, such as server-side row model example.

### Micro frontends

- foundation-login - improvements include customisation, auto connect, password reset, sso fixes, etc.

### Other changes

- Lazy route loading: splitting your routes into different bundles to streamline load times; unvisited routes are never downloaded to the browser. foundation-store-app-seed uses this.

- Design-system improvements: live in app customisation, token mapping improvements, better consistency between design-system versions, ie. alpha and zero (a.k.a rapid).

- More component customisation examples, currently demonstrated in foundation-store-app-seed, but will also be detailed in our docs.

- API extractor/Docs generation: available on foundation-store initially, plans to roll out across all packages in Q2.

- Changes to grid set-ups to support server-side row model use-cases.

- Date Picker component.

- Switch component.

- Nested Tabs.

- Segmented Control/Radio Button group component.

- Number field improvements.

- Slider component.

- Progress (linear and radial) component.

- Tree view component.

- Breadcrumb component.

- Icon component.

- Github Pages preview of select showcase apps and storybook.

## pal-streamer and pal-streamerclient

Both pal-streamer and pal-streamerclient modules have been reworked and numerous bugs have been fixed in terms of recoverability and replayability.

## Service registry/discovery via Consul

Our current service registry/discovery implementation assumes (in general) that each Genesis node is a clone of each other. There are limitations, mostly tied to local availability of xml files with the process/service definition, and also the local memory-mapped files folder containing the resource metadata information associated with a service. The platform can’t easily perform operations like load-balancing messages at the router level, setup heterogeneous servers (different service sets in each one of them), automatic failover, leader election (i.e. primaryOnly only definitions), etc. 

This is not flexible enough for some of the target architectures desired by platform users; and it’s not good enough for the platform either. 

[HashiCorp Consul](https://www.consul.io/) provides this functionality in a relatively easy manner, and without a huge impact on the current platform implementation. Additionally, it can run heterogeneous deployments that have a mix of external services, EC2 instances (or VMs) and K8s clusters. For this reason, we should be able to harness its capabilities with our current deployment models and potentially reuse it later on in a Kubernetes world as well if we desire to do so.

This release provides experimental support for Hashicorp Consul to manage service registry, service discovery and service health checks (integrated with our existing process status monitor system).

### Enabling Consul support

You can enable Consul support by adding a new system definition item with the name “ClusterMode” and the value “CONSUL”. 

The consul agent must be installed in the same host the service is running for this to work as expected.

### How Consul works

When Consul is enabled, Genesis services like genesis-evaluator and genesis-router will use the new service-discovery mechanism and automatic failover provisioning to find a healthy service which can serve a specific resource. 

The availability of a service is defined by its own health checks, which are fully integrated with the Genesis process status monitor system.

**primaryOnly** services will also go through a leader election process managed by Consul. This replicates the original primary/standby behaviour in Genesis, and adds automated self-promotion for standby services when a **primaryOnly** service has gone down.

**Noteworthy: GENESIS_SYNC does not use the new service-discovery mechanism. At the moment, it is host-based, not resource-based. genesis-streamer and genesis-streamerclient do not use the new mechanism either, as the current supported microservices are genesis-pal-streamer and genesis-pal-streamerclient.**

### Using the ServiceDiscovery API

All custom Genesis processes are able to inject “global.genesis.clustersupport.service.ServiceDiscovery” and use it to retrieve information about target resources or services.

The interface is described below.

```kotlin
interface ServiceDiscovery {
	/**
	 * Get own address. Default service discovery will provide hostname, whilst ConsulServiceDiscovery will provide the hostname IP
	 */
	fun localHost(): String
	
	/**
	 * Resolves a message client by resource name (e.g. ALL_USERS, EVENT_TRADE_INSERT, etc)
	 */
	fun resolveClientByResource(resourceName: String, initializationLogic: Consumer<GenesisMessageClient> = Consumer{}): GenesisMessageClient?
	
	/**
	 * Resolves resource information: name, type and serviceName.
	 */
	fun resolveResourceInfo(resourceName: String): ResourceInfo?
	
	/**
	 * Resolves client.
	 */
	fun resolveClient(serviceName: String, initializationLogic: Consumer<GenesisMessageClient> = Consumer{}): GenesisMessageClient?
	
	/**
	 * Resolves service.
	 */
	fun resolveService(serviceName: String, initializationLogic: Consumer<GenesisMessageClient> = Consumer{}): MessageService?
	
	/**
	 * Get all available resources.
	 */
	fun getResources(): Map<String, ResourceInfo>
	
	/**
	 * Adds listener to service changes. The listener will provide a new service list containing all healthy services every time a change happens.
	 */
	fun addServiceListener(service: String, consumer: Consumer<List<ServiceInfo>>)
}
```
The current service resolution strategy for “resolveClient” and “resolveService” methods implemented as part of **ConsulServiceDiscovery** is to return a **GenesisMessageClient** connected to a random service from those that are available. We shall look into implementing different strategies as we evolve the current implementation.

The returned **GenesisMessageClient** instances are **cached,** and users of the API **should not attempt to call the “shutdown” method on them**.

### MessageService interface

A new interface has been created to represent a resilient MessageService that can automatically failover to other services **when running under “Consul” mode**. 

It uses “sticky” connections. This means it will attempt to connect to a target service and keep the connection open as long as the service is available. If the connection is closed, it will attempt to connect to another healthy service as soon as possible.

This behaviour is most desirable where you have a long-running bidirectional data stream. For example, a genesis-pal-streamerclient process will create one connection to a streamer service and initiate the recovery procedure on connection. Once the recovery procedure has finished, it will keep receiving real-time updates from the streamer. If the connection goes down, we need to reconnect to a new streamer process and initiate the recovery procedure again. The same concept applies to Data Server connections.

For now, only GenesisSet type messages are available as part of the interface, but we are looking to extend the “MessageService” capabilities to use type-safe messages as well.

```kotlin
interface MessageService {
  val defaultRequestTimeout: Int
  val address: String
	/**
	 * Boolean value will confirm if message sent was successful or not
	 */
	fun rxSendMessage(
	    set: GenesisSet,
	): Single<Boolean> = rxSendMessage(set, defaultRequestTimeout)
	
	/**
	 * Boolean value will confirm if message sent was successful or not
	 */
	fun rxSendMessage(
	    set: GenesisSet,
	    timeout: Int
	): Single<Boolean>
	
	/**
	 * Boolean value will confirm if message sent was successful or not
	 */
	@JvmSynthetic
	suspend fun suspendSendMessage(
	    set: GenesisSet,
	): Boolean = suspendSendMessage(set, defaultRequestTimeout)
	
	/**
	 * Boolean value will confirm if message sent was successful or not
	 */
	@JvmSynthetic
	suspend fun suspendSendMessage(
	    set: GenesisSet,
	    timeout: Int
	): Boolean
	
	fun rxRequest(
	    set: GenesisSet,
	): Single<GenesisSet> = rxRequest(set, defaultRequestTimeout)
	
	fun rxRequest(
	    set: GenesisSet,
	    timeout: Int,
	): Single<GenesisSet>
	
	/**
	 * Returns null if timeout, exception if error.
	 */
	@JvmSynthetic
	suspend fun suspendRequest(
	    set: GenesisSet,
	): GenesisSet? = suspendRequest(set, defaultRequestTimeout)
	
	/**
	 * Null if timeout, exception if error.
	 */
	@JvmSynthetic
	suspend fun suspendRequest(
	    set: GenesisSet,
	    timeout: Int,
	): GenesisSet?
	
	   
	/**
	 * Add listener to handler.
	 *
	 *@param listener listener to add
	 */
	fun addListener(listener: GenesisMessageListener<GenesisSet>)
	
	/**
	 * Remove listener to handler.
	 *
	 *@param listener listener to add
	 */
	fun removeListener(listener: GenesisMessageListener<GenesisSet>)
	
	/**
	 * Adds connection event handler
	 *
	 *@param listener listener to add
	 */
	fun addConnectionEventHandler(handler: ConnectionEventHandler)
	
	/**
	 * Removes connection event handler
	 *
	 *@param listener listener to add
	 */
	fun removeConnectionEventHandler(handler: ConnectionEventHandler)
	
	/**
	 * Closes message service.
	 */
	fun close()

}
```

## Changes to GenesisMessageClient

GenesisMessageClient now implements the **MessageListener** interface located in **global.genesis.net**.

## Changes to genesis-camel

genesis-camel: CSVEventHandlerProcessor, FileEventHandlerProcessor and KafkaEventHandlerProcessor are now deprecated. These won’t be using the new service discovery provided by Consul (i.e. they won’t be able to automatically discover resources living in separate environments).

To address this, new bindings have been added to the Groovy expression embedded in the xml file, called: “csvEventProcessorProvider”, “fileEventProcessorProvider” and “kafkaEventProcessorProvider”.

Each one of these bindings has a “createProcessor” method with the same constructor parameters as their corresponding previous Processor classes and will use the new service discovery mechanism.

