---
title: 'Version 2022.2'
sidebar_label: 'Version 2022.2'
sidebar_position: 0
id: version-2022-2
---

This is version v2022.2 of the documentation for the Genesis low-code platform.

The basis of this version is:

|part of stack|version| 
|---|---|
| server   | 6.1.0  |  
| web  | 2.0.0  |   

# Release notes

## GPAL Camel [Breaking Change]
The Genesis Camel component is typically used for custom integration of external systems, such as file based ingestion from SFTP sites, S3 buckets, and more. The component now has a GPAL interface. This brings all the benefits of GPAL,  including intellisense, autocompletion, compile-time errors and remote debugging capabilities.

## GPAL Data Pipeline component

This is a new component created to simplify the ingestion of pipelines of data from external sources, and to map them into a Genesis application. 

It supports real-time data ingestion from Postgres, Oracle, and MSSQL RDBs. Files can be ingested from local filesystem and external sources. Csv and Json file contents supported.

## Oracle Support

Oracle Server is now supported as a database layer.

## DSL

The first release (version 0.0.1) of our proprietary DSL now enables you to  define full-stack applications, unifying front-end and back-end development. 

This is designed to improve the speed and efficiency of development on the Genesis low-code platform. You can now enable authentication more easily across the apps created, grids views, create command, along with the ability to add custom commands and some advanced views (via custom cell renderers).

Man details are:

- CLI Integration
    - New seed with DSL support
- Dynamic UI routing
    - DSL-driven dynamic routing configuration
    - Dynamic navigation bar component
    - Configurable page visibility (public/private)
    - Configurable default page
- Rendering & creation of model instances
    - UI views dynamically derived from a data model
    - Read-only grid view: columns derived from model fields with support for custom cell renderers (e.g. Buy/Sell) e.g. list of trades
    - Create form view: inputs are derived from model fields e.g. insert trade form
- Dynamic page structure
    - DSL-driven pages with dynamic structure
    - Declarative way of describing page elements and their attributes
    - Support for both standard HTML elements and custom Web Components (Genesis/third-party)
    - No constraints on nesting-levels
- Triggering commands
    - DSL-driven way to trigger commands (e.g. cancel trade)
    - Custom grid cell renderer to display buttons associated with commands
    - Context-specific commands (e.g. trade cancel command available in trade context)
- Automatic inference of required services
    - Back-end services inferred from UI definition (Data Server/Event Handler)
    - Back-end project dynamically generated
    - Gradle plugin driving DSL code generation
- Cross-cutting UI concerns (services)
    - Support for functionality spanning multiple pages (e.g. auth, analytics etc.)
    - Login service integrating the existing login micro front-end
- Versioned schema for generated DSL code
    - Formal contract between generators and consumers; this can be used for validation and ensuring interoperability
    - Versions allow evolving functionality over time
- Defining the data model 
    - Define data model in DSL
    - Basic workflow definition
    - Joining data sources into views

# Auth

- Auth now offers periodic JWT (JSON Web Token) revalidation for a logged-on user. Users that fail revalidation are automatically logged off from their session. This improves security options for applications that  use JWT SSO.
- Auth now enables you to configure for JWT (JSON Web Token) SSO. This means you can now use a Pubic URL to obtain a JWT public key for token validation. (You can, of course, still use preconfigured Public Keys.)
- The Legacy events EVENT_PROFILE_USERS and EVENT_USER_PROFILES have now been replaced by ReqReps in the Request Server: REQ_PROFILE_USERS and REQ_USER_PROFILES.
- The way that operations in the AUTH API are permissioned has changed. The following Event Handlers are now defined using GPAL, which means that they are no longer locked down to users with a specific ACCESS_TYPE or the ADMIN profile. They are now permissioned using RIGHT codes. This gives you more flexibility to decide what is and is not an ‘admin’ operation in your system.



