---
format: md
---
<!-- Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by API Documenter. -->

[Home](./index.md) &gt; [@genesislcap/foundation-login](./foundation-login.md) &gt; [SSOConfig](./foundation-login.ssoconfig.md)

## SSOConfig type

If you don't provide SSOConfig on the login config then SSO is disabled completely.

**Signature:**

```typescript
export type SSOConfig = {
    toggled?: boolean;
    identityProvidersPath: string;
};
```

## Remarks

`toggled` - Optionally toggle the SSO journey on/off by default. If `toggled` is set to `true`<!-- -->, the SSO option is presented as enabled to the user (e.g., the SSO checkbox is checked, or SSO providers are immediately displayed). If `toggled` is set to `false` (or if the parameter is omitted entirely), the SSO option starts as disabled. The user would then need to explicitly enable it (e.g., by checking a checkbox) to initiate the SSO flow.

`identityProvidersPath` - The identity providers path under the current host. This is a \*required\* string parameter. It specifies the URL path where the application can fetch the list of available Identity Providers (IDPs) for SSO. This path is relative to the `API_HOST` or the `host` you are setting in the parent component. The login component will make a request to this endpoint to retrieve the IDPs. The response from this endpoint is expected to be in a format that the component can understand (as defined by the `IDP` and `IDPResponse` types in your code). The response is expected to be a JSON object containing an array of identity providers. Example: If your `API_HOST` is `https://example.com/gwf` and `identityProvidersPath` is set to `'sso/list'`<!-- -->, the component will fetch the IDP list from `https://example.com/gwf/sso/list`<!-- -->. This endpoint should be implemented on your backend to return the available SSO providers.

## Example


```ts
const config: SSOConfig = {
  toggled: true,
  identityProvidersPath: 'sso/list',
}
```

