---
id: getting-started
sidebar_label: Getting started
sidebar_position: 10
title: Getting started
tags:
  - components
  - frontend
  - ui
---

A workspace generated by the [CLI](/creating-applications/defining-your-application/user-interface/web-ui-reference/cli/) will contain multiple packages including a design system.

A [design system](/creating-applications/defining-your-application/user-interface/web-ui-reference/design-systems/intro/) package provides the following:

* set of reusable UI components
* configuration files which allow you to control colours, typography, sizing and various other aspects
* building blocks for creating your own custom components on top of the design system

Each workspace gets an instance of a design system by default. You can also re-use design systems across workspaces to ensure consistency.

import DSNameMessage from '../_includes/_ds-name-message.md'

<DSNameMessage />

## Register components

Components must be registered prior to being used. Import the necessary component and pass it to a [design system](/creating-applications/defining-your-application/user-interface/web-ui-reference/design-systems/intro/) to register:

import CodeBlock from '@theme/CodeBlock';
import Example from '!!raw-loader!/examples/ui/alphaImports';

<CodeBlock className="language-ts">{Example}</CodeBlock>

You can also use `baseComponents` shortcut to register all the available components:


```ts
import {provideDesignSystem, baseComponents} from '@genesislcap/alpha-design-system';

provideDesignSystem().register(
  baseComponents
);
```

:::note
When working with a tree-shaking supporting bundler such as Webpack or Rollup, it's preferable to import and register the individual components. This will ensure that any unused components are tree-shaken out of your builds.
:::

## Add components to HTML

Once you have registered the components as shown above, they are available to use in your document (or template) like any other HTML element:

```html live
<alpha-button>Button</alpha-button>
```

## Hide undefined elements

Custom llements that have not been [upgraded](https://developers.google.com/web/fundamentals/web-components/customelements#upgrades) and don't have styles attached can still be rendered by the browser,  but they probably will not look the way they are supposed to. To avoid a *flash of un-styled content* (FOUC), visually hide any custom elements that are not yet defined:

```css
:not(:defined) {
  visibility: hidden;
}
```

:::important
The consuming application must apply this, as the components themselves do not.
:::


## Explore the available components

Genesis Foundation UI design system provides over 40 components. You can explore them by category:

* [Form](/creating-applications/defining-your-application/user-interface/web-ui-reference/components/form/button/), such as button, checkbox, text field etc.
* [Grids](/creating-applications/defining-your-application/user-interface/web-ui-reference/components/grids/ag-grid/ag-grid-intro) such as AG Grid and Data Grid
* [Interaction](/creating-applications/defining-your-application/user-interface/web-ui-reference/components/interaction/accordion/), such as accordion, tabs, modal, tooltip etc.
* [Presentation](/creating-applications/defining-your-application/user-interface/web-ui-reference/components/presentation/avatar) such as avatar, card, progress indicators etc.