---
title: 'Web deployment - manual'
sidebar_label: 'Manual deployment'
id: manual-deployment
keywords: [web, manual deployment, deployment, introduction]
tags:
  - web
  - deployment
  - manual deployment
  - introduction
---

To perform a manual deployment, you will have to:
- Copy the web build from your machine to the target server.
- Update the _web root_ symlink.

The files need to be placed in `/data/${productUser}/web`. There are multiple ways to do this; use whichever one you are most comfortable with.

:::note
It is possible to configure [WinSCP](https://winscp.net/eng/index.php) to sudo and deploy to the web root directly.
:::

If you ssh into the server using your personal credentials, you probably won't have access to put them there directly. To get around this, you can transfer them to `/tmp` first (or any other directory with open permissions) and then copy them over to the desired location once you have logged in as the _${productUser}_ on the server.

Here is an example using [rsync](https://explainshell.com/explain?cmd=rsync+-avzhP+-e+%22ssh+i+%2Fpath%2Fto%2Fkey%22+src+target) over SSH:

- Send the files from your machine to the remote server, at first targeting the `/tmp` for permissions reasons.

```bash
rsync   -avzhP
        -e "ssh -i /path/to/id_rsa"             		# path to your ssh key
        /path/to/local/build                    		# path to your local build, generated by running npm run build
        username@remote-target:/tmp/${productUser}  	# initial target folder on the server
```

Alternatively using a simple `scp` command.

```bash
scp -o StrictHostKeyChecking=no -r ./dist username@remote-target:/tmp/dist
```

- SSH into the server:
    - `ssh -i /path/to/id_rsa username@remote-target`

- Switch to the product user for the app you are deploying:
    - `sudo su - ${productUser}`

- Copy the dist files from `/tmp` to the _web root_, by convention to a folder named web-${currentdate}:
    - `cp -r /tmp/${productUser}/www /data/${productUser}/web-20220823`

- Update the symlink:
    - `unlink /data/${productUser}/web`
    - `ln -s /data/${productUser}/web-20220823/ /data/${productUser}/web `

