---
id: getting-started
sidebar_label: Getting Started
sidebar_position: 10
title: Getting Started
tags:
  - components
  - frontend
  - ui
---

A workspace generated by the [CLI](/front-end-reference/cli/) contains multiple packages including a design system.

A design system package provides the following:

* set of reusable UI components
* configuration files which allow you to control colours, typography, sizing and various other aspects
* building blocks for creating your own custom components on top the design system

Each workspace gets an instance of a design system by default. You can also reuse design systems across workspaces to ensure consistency.

:::info
In the examples below we refer to a sample `@genesislcap/alpha-design-system` design system with an `alpha` prefix. In your project design system would likely have a different name/prefix while still exposing the same API.
:::

## Register components

Components must be registered prior to being used in HTML. Importing the necessary definition and registering it with a `DesignSystem` will register the custom element with the platform:

```ts
import {provideDesignSystem, alphaButton} from '@genesislcap/alpha-design-system';

provideDesignSystem().register(
  alphaButton
);
```

You can use the following shortcut to register most of the available components:


```ts
import {provideDesignSystem, alphaBaseComponents} from '@genesislcap/alpha-design-system';

provideDesignSystem().register(
  alphaBaseComponents
);
```

:::note
When working with a tree-shaking supporting bundler such as Webpack or Rollup, it's preferable to import and register the individual components. This will ensure that any unused components are tree-shaken out of your builds.
:::

## Add components to HTML

Once you've registered the components as shown above, they are now available for use in your document (or template). Just use the new elements like any other HTML element.

```html live
<alpha-button>Button</alpha-button>
```

## Hide undefined elements

Custom Elements that have not been [upgraded](https://developers.google.com/web/fundamentals/web-components/customelements#upgrades) and don't have styles attached can still be rendered by the browser but they likely do not look how they are supposed to. To avoid a *flash of un-styled content* (FOUC), visually hide Custom Elements that are not yet defined:

```css
:not(:defined) {
  visibility: hidden;
}
```

:::important
The consuming application must apply this, as the components themselves do not.
:::


## Explore the available components

There are over 40 components provided out of the box with a Genesis Foundation UI design system. You can explore them by category:

* [Form](/front-end-reference/components/form/button/), such as button, checkbox, text field etc.
* [Interaction](/front-end-reference/components/interaction/accordion/), such tabs, modal, tooltip etc.
* [Presentation & Visualisation](/front-end-reference/components/presentation/ag-grid/) such as grids, cards, progress indicators etc.